hello everyone and welcome to episode 24
of hot line League boy is it a special
one for you guys tonight because guess
what we raring this on a Sunday tomorrow
we've got another episode episode 25
Volare that's a special feature week
we're waiting for msi to start but
there's already been some movements
we're gonna be talking to the head of
golden Guardians this week about the
changes that he's seeing in his
organization some of the broader
strategy there sure you guys have a lot
of questions for him and we'll be
talking about all sorts of other stuff
too I don't know what yet because you
guys haven't called in but we'll find
out shortly here we go hotline League is
brought to you by opened by HP all right
somebody was typing over the start of
this and I think it was probably Mark
never mark wasn't me
all right I was adding some ambience I'm
sorry didn't play well yeah it's a
rhythmic claw
yeah like rock to you by Owen by HP and
there's a keyboard sound it's actually
part of it you know it's like an act of
using a computer so sorry for everyone
who's watching the vaad it expected a
professional start to the show hours try
to give that but Mark had other plans
today marking mute myself so I can't
mess it up and it was like in my own
head like I'm not gonna mess it up boy
alright well mark is my constant co-host
he's already introduced himself but I'll
let him do it a little bit more mark how
are you doing I'm doing real good I
wasn't really thinking about it on
Sundays I mean I get to Bill you double
for this week next up we have our guest
Hunter Lee from golden Guardian saw the
show today hunter how's it going good
you know it's gonna be a fun night
how so how we'll get into this in a
second but you are you a little nervous
for tonight yeah yeah yeah I would
describe myself as sad anxious and
nervous all right I'd I describe myself
as excited confused and startled that's
but that's why that's all state actually
so that's how I am all the
I'm like a bunny rabbit ready to just
dart out of the room yeah I've switched
to regular glasses now because mark is
wearing two so I feel like he's covering
both of us well you got a new camera and
it looks really nice and so I'm just
trying to find some way to keep up and I
thought the double glasses was a good
move yeah that's cool it is a unique the
differentiator you know I've got the
good camera you've got the two glasses I
don't know no it's a little bit of
chitter-chatter before the start of the
show mark what did you do this past week
um nothing really yeah I've been going
to meetings almost every day about like
different opportunities because I want
to find something that I want to commit
like a little bit more long-term to than
just like consulting I guess I'd say so
I'm exploring oh you are looking for
like a full time gig are these like job
jobs no I mean what's a job in eSports
really well I guess what I would say is
it it is it enough of a thing that you
wouldn't be doing some of what you were
doing before and it's an exclusivity
type arrangement no I don't think it
would be well I would be exclusive do
with my time commitments but I don't
think okay basically just trying to find
a place to make content that I'm going
to enjoy and people are going to enjoy
beyond just doing it on my own
yeah I'm rapidly fixing the alert noises
for the donation and subscriptions and
everything so sorry sorry for the noise
around all that martyr all right so mark
you just like you're just taking
meetings and stuff because wait you you
don't have anything going on with
offline right it's not using you for a
while so you just it's just nothing it's
this is the only thing you've got right
now I mean like I'm setting up a little
bit for the future I mean MSI is coming
up and there's no way if I have this
much free time I'm not gonna be doing
content for that so yeah have some stuff
planned maybe bringing some stuff back
who knows which of my old shows and be
coming back yeah well that's exciting
excited to excited to see Hunter how are
you doing I know you've had you know a
hectic week from work but you were
talking a little bit about there's a new
slate aspire character that came out so
his fire was like yeah yeah what yeah
yes opt-in to the beta which I had to
figure out how to do and it's oh shit
to ative and you need to be careful cuz
it resets your progress you got to redo
all the unlocks and stuff I'll be right
back yeah I worry we should not have
talked about this now mark knows about
this at the entire show he's just gonna
be playing slay this one yeah yeah yeah
so I got it a slate aspire two weeks ago
during Kelly's birthday and they have
really have really enjoyed it and the
new third character is very different
yeah but but fun so far I'm not I'm not
very good yet yeah I hear that confuse
range for me I got new glasses this is
one of my pairs of new glasses this is
another pair of my new glasses that was
the exciting thing for me also bubble
Cola using trickery apparently if you
know somebody's Amazon wishlist you can
send them stuff that isn't on the Amazon
wishlist sent me something called a cam
link which is now allowing me use my
mirrorless Sony camera is a web cam so
no more launch tech camera now I've got
this thing so mark has to compete by
wearing two sunglasses send him another
one and it's still like yeah yeah well
worth it well either way we've got that
going so hunter why don't you go ahead
and introduce yourself in your
background because I know you've been
content with me in the past and I've
done some videos but I'm sure that we
have a little bit of a different
audience tonight who might not be
familiar with your Eastwood jewelry
sure so circling back I got in eSports
six seven years ago TSM moved from their
team house in New York to their team
house in in San Francisco and I was in
the the tech and gaming space up here
and I just kind of reached out and and
asked if there was anything I could do
volunteer you know I was in kind of the
tech space so maybe website stuff I
don't know and I ended up writing a a
tribunal kind of joke slash analysis
blog for them and that combined with my
my kind of web experience made me a
really good candidate for when GameSpot
where Travis and and slasher were was
kind of expanding eSports to spin off
its own site so I I joined and was
product and operations manager for
GameSpot for a year and a half or two
years or however long we were there
mostly with under the on gamers umbrella
ill-fated and
and and forgotten at this point
hopefully and then I took a job at riot
and I moved down sorry I moved down to
LA and was at riot for a little under
two years working as sort of running the
LCS product lead during mostly the
transition to be o3s that was kind of my
big project at riot but the 2016 worlds
in in Europe and overseeing kind of
League ops and a lot of
behind-the-scenes stuff them up make the
broadcast go and those things 2015 world
from Europe 2015 worlds yeah in in EU a
fun worlds to work for sure and then I
left that to come back home and I joined
running for my title head of head of
business development or something for
for Yahoo eSports and worked alongside
Travis again and we were there as long
as Yahoo eSports existed which was about
a year for me I think I was there for
about a year that the Verizon
acquisition ended up closing that and
then I have now been at Goldy guardians
or the Golden State Warriors for about
seven months all of all of its existence
I guess since mid October when we got
word that this was a thing until now and
it's been quite a ride so two stints on
the media side now so depending on you
come to TSM thing maybe one point one
instance on the on the team side and
then sometime at ride also so I've been
I've been all over the industry yeah you
were the reason why best of threes
happened to some extent or that happened
underneath your tenure yeah yeah it's
certainly not the only the only reason
but it was it was a lot of a lot of work
I kind of led a lot of the transitional
efforts and the initial internal
rallying to try to help make that happen
and uh you know the building out of the
second studio and the rallying of Labor
and a lot of a lot of that kind of stuff
that was that was a lot of fun a lot of
work a lot of fun so you've announced
some changes recently to golden
Guardians do you want to discuss sort of
what what was announced this week yeah
so I'll do it in sort of two forms one I
think like you know the announcement was
I made we kind of announced in a video
and then I went and did a bunch of
interviews Wednesday and one of those
two
goes super well and it blew up on Reddit
and so you know and so that some of why
why we're here but we've we've announced
kind of a bunch of changes that that I
can talk about the big one that I think
a lot of people are focusing on is that
that we have moved on from high admit
and brought in Mickey from Team Liquid
Khadem II to be our new mid laner at the
LCS level in addition to that you know
which I think that's that's been the
thing that there's been a lot of
conversation about and we can circle
back to that in a second
Tyler Peron who stepped in as our
interim coach halfway through the split
or a third of the way through the split
he did a fantastic job and so we kind of
gave him the the head coach title
permanently and extended him through
next year and we're really excited about
everything he's gonna do and we brought
a special who was kind of a player coach
at the Academy level up and so he's a
full time coach at the LCS level as
assistant coach for Tyler kind of pro
player perspective strategic mind and
then gonna focus a lot on bottom lane
development and bot Lane kind of
positional coach and then we made big
upgrades at the academy tier especially
moved up so that freed up a spot we let
two players go Jenkins in the top lane
Jurassic ad carry and so we brought in
three players each who've had a spell at
the LCS and are kind of looking to prove
that they're ready to get back there is
the ignosi recently at optic benji who
was lod before at ad carry and sheep at
support and so i'm all of that you know
and i think this is some of what was
lost all of that was to support kind of
a take some risks push our guys support
the kind of development of our young
players and hopefully have a stronger
summer split and beyond
yeah now Marc feel free to hop in hop in
whenever you want but I think one of the
now one of the things have precipitated
this your being on the show this week
was you reached out to me about the idea
of doing of coming on hotline like we
already had parth on but this was sort
of following the events of an interview
that came out with blitz that was
received with heavy criticism from the
community do you want to sort of give
if your take on that because I think
people felt as though I'm the majority
of the frustration that I saw one is it
seems as though people were frustrated
generally with golden Guardians and sort
of what they perceived to be like a
lackluster roster and maybe a
non-competitive team in the LCS but also
a move that removed a popular player and
one where you had sort of said in in a
variety of different ways never so
outright that you remove too high
basically because he was not a very good
mid laner anymore so I don't know if you
want to you have not really said too
much I don't know if you've tweeted
anything since that interview came out
but I'm curious if you have anything
before we start getting into interrupts
to the callers where I'm sure they'll
they'll talk and sort of share their
take on that as well yeah um you know so
I think we're really excited about this
kind of suite of changes in the way you
know we went into this the spring split
really focusing on the development of
for young players that we thought had a
bright future and high ceilings and they
could be they could be put in a kind of
fresh position and get a chance to
succeed and we could invest in them they
could invest in us we could grow as an
organization together and you know we
were sort of constantly evaluating how
we're doing against those development
goals and so you know we made this whole
bunch of changes that we thought would
set us up better for kind of development
in the summer split and beyond and I
went to do interviews in part because I
wanted to talk through those changes
there's some nuance and based on the
leak that Jacob Wolfe did I thought the
you know changing hi would be a little
controversial so so you know we wanted
to kind of talk through the whole thing
ultimately we did like an hour's worth
of interview at blitz and and kind of 13
minutes that they cut together which I
think maybe is the first of the lit
blitz often sort of chops does a longer
thing and chops it up into segments so I
think this is the first or maybe it's
the only one was very much just focused
on the high piece of that and within
there and you know within the sort of
hours of talking I did trying to lay
this out I said something I don't I
don't think I didn't mean but ultimately
was like way too harsh
unprofessional and and kind of
disrespectful of hi and they're simple
quotes and and whatever and so um
I kind of I guess I remember it a little
bit in the moment but we're talking
moving on and I've sort of forgotten
about it so when the thread popped up
and I realized that that was gonna be a
big part of the kind of focus and the
reaction to it was really negative
understandably I reach out to high
immediately and apologize to him I went
to our you know the team and talked
through what had happened and apologized
to them you know when he or ultimately
and sort of the reason I reached out to
you is that I felt like that I wanted to
get you know back in front of the camera
have an opportunity to talk things talk
things through but also you know have an
opportunity to apologize to our fans for
really taking the wrong tack and kind of
talking through this change and and
being kind of unnecessarily because sort
of disrespectful to high in the process
that's not that's not who I am as a
person not who we are as an organization
and I deserve better than that as sort
of send-off from us and so that's that's
part of why we're here I also think you
know it's a good chance to hopefully
talk about some of the other things
we're doing you know I think continuing
to talk about hi is probably a little
bit of a trap but we will sort of work
our way work our way through it as this
goes on I'm sure you'll get a lot of
people who are gonna call in about that
and I know some people will talk about
the move itself and like why it didn't
work out some of those questions so I'll
hold off my opinions until they get
brought up more by the callers the only
thing I'd say is like I I rewatched the
interview today to prep for it and like
I understood what you were trying to say
and how it came across and I think like
I think what happened is the kind of
typical reddit problem we're like
someone pulls a quote out and most
people don't watch it and then they just
build their opinion off that because the
quote that the line that really got you
in trouble was the you know we felt like
we had it was something along the lines
I'm gonna paraphrase here something
along lines of we had four good players
and now with Mickey we have five or
something and like I think that was the
the line that that most people calling
on too and then like the rest of the
video didn't matter so like I guess what
were you explicitly trying to say that
before I share my opinion on it
I'm not sure it matters I mean I think
like I think ultimately it was probably
too much hi conversation at all and I
think one of the things I sort of
watched like Reggie Jackson doing this
for years do such a good job of talking
through both you know sort of players
that are departing and also new players
that are coming in and kind of balancing
a discussion of the future in a way that
doesn't make it as much about whatever
the reason was that somebody's moving on
right and I think I I'm just sort of I
didn't do a good job of kind of handling
that scenario more broadly you know I
did a ton of amazing things for the
organization and I should have been
talking a lot more about that and kind
of letting myself I think get sucked
into a conversation of explicitly why
take me through exactly what I was doing
wrong and why you kicked him from the
team or why he's not a part of it
anymore and so I think there was sort of
a broader problem you know that that
kind of predates any specific comment I
made and there that being said like that
comment itself was sort of way over the
line room somewhat regardless of context
not entirely from context so I guess
that's the I guess that's the way I'd
answer it there's a there's a way in
which I don't feel like rehashing the
exact context of that sentence is like
super relevant at this point yet the
twitch chat is taking your statement
about it doesn't matter to mean you
saying that doesn't matter if you want
to elaborate a little bit on what yeah
sorry so I I guess my intentions there
don't matter right so what I said I
think was hurtful and mean and
inappropriate and what I meant in the
face of that is sort of meaningless and
it's on me right to express myself with
more clarity and consistency such that
I'm not saying anything that that is
mean and harsh and unprofessional or
whatever you know regardless of what I'm
what I'm trying to say and you know I
think what you did right there like
giving me a chance to clarify in the
moment because maybe something's being
misunderstood the problem of the fully
canned interview that then gets gets hit
to read it later there isn't the
opportunity maybe two back and forth and
and accidentally have talked myself into
some hole that I that I'm three days
later trying to talk myself back out of
sure and other than that I'd suggest you
ignore to it check because they're a
bunch of crazy people so I'm trying to
think if there's anything else we should
we should talk about before we get just
straight into the calls I don't know
mark if you have something no I mean
like I said I think a lot of the actual
moves themselves will get hopefully
brought up by the callers like I thought
that was a bad move I don't think Nikki
will help or whatever their opinions are
I think that's when all chimed in on the
specifics yeah the only thing I would
say before we actually mark when you
give your ship wheels so that we can
start getting people queued up yeah so
if you guys haven't watched the show
before the way this works is we have a
discord server that we're all using for
audio here and spam it in chat it's in
twitch chat right now check it out
you're gonna want to join that server
and when you do there's gonna be text
and voice channels you're gonna need to
join a voice general channel and you can
meet yourself once you're in there and
then you'll need to join one of the text
channels and that is where you're gonna
post your quote unquote take and what
you want to talk about please avoid
really general stuff so I actually what
you try and talk about so I don't say
like I want to talk about the moves
golden Guardians made it's like that
doesn't mean anything to me and if you
say I think I wasn't the problem and I
want to say that this is a bad move
great that's a little bit more specific
and I can pull that question once we do
that I'll pull you from your general
voice chat into the waiting room to do
some mic test make sure you're good for
putting you on air and the only thing
while mark is collecting questions and
discussion topics there as is the case
with about every piece of content that I
do with hunter I just wanted to close
like hunter and I have worked together
previously I consider him a close friend
we hang out and similar groups that
presents an obvious conflict of interest
there's gonna be a lot of people that
immediately say well then I shouldn't
watch this show or like Travis will just
defend up look here's how tonight is
gonna go mark is gonna pull questions
from the chat and from the discord or
whatever and then you guys are gonna
call in I will help moderate the
conversation but I'm not like here to
defend Hunter or to whatever it's gonna
be hunter and you guys and probably more
mark than me to be honest for it
so that's like I'm just taking trying to
create like a forum to facilitate a
conversation between the community and
Hunter and you know mark kind of
injecting his opinions as time goes on
the only other thing I would add to that
that was that I do expect everyone to be
respectful and polite so if you think
like a good amount of feedback would say
like hey I think high is but it was
better than Mickey and I don't
understand hunter I'd like to hear him
explain what made them think about
Mickey instead of high calling in and
saying like hunter sucks and should lose
this job or a mortal's with a much
better team the golden Guardians like
hunter you suck or what like that's the
type of stuff where I'm just gonna you
know in the conversation because this is
supposed to be a polite show that's the
type of content I like to create so I
mean sometimes we let it devolve into
like bullshit and I don't think this is
one of those yeah and and by the way
like I I know we're started talking
starting on this uh this more serious
conversation but if you guys want to
talk about something that's a little bit
more chill or whatever this doesn't need
to feel like the Inquisition with
everybody calling it to to flog hunter
or whatever we can talk about all sorts
of different stuff as well so I don't it
doesn't need to be two hours of that but
hope you guys do appreciate the chance
here to have a conversation about all
the stuff it's a little different than I
think of the way a lot of people
approach hunters are so nervous he's
already left oh no no no my wife at home
so I'm able to close the door to this
room and okay cool very good as so as we
get into the first call I do want to
thank a couple people who have sent in
some support to the show let's see so
far we've got the dran ago er an Ivysaur
portal and mars sent a hunter bits and
so looking forward to back to back
calling League bonzo TV subbed Frost
current sent ten bucks said a really
nice thing to Mesa Rubik sent a hundred
bits little dough dough DC marker you
getting the next car yeah I didn't know
if you want me to pull them for you
ready oh I'm ready sorry I thought I
heard you say you ready yeah gotcha
gotcha well we'll continue on with the
conversation first off we've got emo
acti is that how you pronounce your name
emo okay we're gonna call you emo I'm
turning you up a little bit cuz you're a
little bit alright where you calling in
from emo I'm calling from Montevideo why
from where why oh very cool very cool
look lad to have an intercept
international caller on do you watch
much na LCS
every every weekend and I watch this
show every every week with oh thank you
i I watch you like from state of the
league so I love you thank you thank you
for everything
oh thank you thank you so much that's
very nice of you
I'd love to have you just continue to
talk for a while but maybe we should get
to the reason you you called in what do
you want to talk about on the show all
right
so even though hunter has has said
something hurtful in my opinion um he
didn't tell the truth I wasn't really a
good player um he was a good shot caller
but that doesn't make him a good player
um skill wise he was always behind I
think every single mid laner or so so I
think he did hold
gds back but I believe um also well that
was the take right but I also think um
it will have him better to keep him as a
like strategic coach may be
psychological coach and don't focus on
him being a good a bad player but
instead on what he did bring positively
into a team and Hunter just said that so
I agree with him and he messed up but we
all don't do right so good okay so I
think now that we're on the topic of
haiii I agree to an extent like I don't
think anyone on that team was like hands
down should not be in the league
level of skill but I think like it was a
team that didn't really function how it
was supposed to function well like when
you watch them play the games like hi
had almost doubled the next closest
person's negative CSD at 10 and then
like it got even worse at 15 and 20 like
he was just clearly not capable of like
holding his own in Lane it felt like
versus the current mid pool or he was
intentionally at you know the best thing
you can put on is that he was
intentionally putting himself behind to
make things happen on the map either way
that was like not working for them so
like I understand wanting to change
things up especially if the development
focused side of it and his skill set not
being translatable and teachable other
people is coming to fruition behind the
scenes so I I think like in that sense I
definitely agree with the caller well
hunter here's your chance you can go
back in on highest skills again oh it's
just getting up dime time to double down
No so so it sounds like emo kind of
agrees with the roster change but one
thing he did kind of bring up is the the
possibility of like having high stick
around as a coach or sort of to help
behind the scenes with the performance
of the players is there you know what
what was was there any kind of
conversation around that or why didn't
you guys sort of have hi help out there
yeah so we talked to hi about a number
of possibilities you know yeah and
ultimately like I think he's just not
very interested in coaching and I think
I I can't remember if this made the
Blitz interview or not but you know I
think hi-hi is a doer you know like he I
think he has a ton of self-confidence
it's sort of infectious and amazing and
it's one of his just like tremendous
skills and part of what makes him a
strong leader and I think I think I
could be a good coach a great coach if
that was something he really wanted to
do but ultimately he wasn't particularly
interested in in that role and and wants
to kind of carve a new path for himself
which I think he talked about in his AMA
and he's done a lot of streaming and
other things to sort of to kind of get
some more perspective or his perspective
out there so you know I think if that
was something high circled back to
you know at some point I think he could
be amazing at it but but he wasn't he's
not interested in that at least right
now emo do you have any other thoughts
on golden Guardians organization or you
know anything anything that you follow
up what I said I think if if highs major
skill point was shotcalling he wasn't
really doing a good job at that either
because GDS macro was a mess in my
opinion like all split atoms also
curious about if bringing special to the
main team or several a possibility
because I believe he could bring
experience and shotcalling to the team
and also I think special was always a
really good sport and Matt maybe isn't
that even though Matt is fine I'm not
blaming him yeah so I think that's an
interesting question so I guess I'd say
two things I think I think we saw you
know distinct flashes of what Matt is
capable of if you look at the Recon
games that he had the Shen games that he
had and I think you you kind of look at
the bottom lane overall our bottom line
I think was was one of the strengths of
the team and I you know Matt is
literally 50% of that but also I think
the support especially in terms of
laning presence and that structure is by
far the biggest voice I also think you
know we didn't see the best that Matt
was capable of consistently and some of
that is I think putting him you know
sort of improving the environment around
him and making sure that he's he's set
up for success
I think it's special knows and that he
has a I don't know an hour long
interview I think with Jacob wolf that
that you can find out there that
coaching is his future something he and
I have been talking about for years when
I was at Riot you know I was I was kind
of getting to know the players for the
first time and talking to the team
liquid guys a lot because I happen to be
just sort of physically near them you
know more often but a bunch of the
players about where they are right now
where do they see themselves in the
future how is you know they're sort of
eSports career progressed and I think
especially nose coaching is is his
future or its it's likely his future and
he has a tremendous number of kind of
natural
skills I think will make him excellent
at that and and we saw sort of pieces of
that in his kind of player coach role at
academy this past split and you know I
think you can find the interview for
free him to talk more about that but but
ultimately I think him moving into a
full-time coaching role with the team is
the right decision but you know for us
especially but also also for him yeah
Jacob in the chat right now ready to
plug like he was just showing up right
in the chat just showed up ready at just
the time to put so plug that he'd see it
are all ready to go exactly exactly
he also instantly got gifted a he was
just like waiting he's like alright so
he's like I'm sensing a plug
opportunities here
he also instantly got gifted a sub so he
can Jacob I expect you to use my emotes
every in every twitch chat that you go
to an honor of the gifts that you were
given a day it's the greatest gift one
eSports personality can get is just a
sub to this channel so thank you so much
yeah and if anyone has any inside info
that they want to give to Jacob all you
just have to say his name in a mere
three times to make the deal that is
true yeah emo emo that's a good question
I'm glad you brought up their special
thing any any parting thoughts before we
move on to the next caller I was like
process of the change and I agree with
it um as he said like his hue wasn't
perfect but I I thank you for having me
on good job yeah thank you so much yeah
Thank You mo really fantastic yeah all
right moving on to the next color and we
should have somebody as second as mark
goes off to grab some people do you want
to say thank you to little doll to see
for the sub Rico suave who research it's
been four months he's been on the show
before hello this guy's named project
cream pie donated $10 and said if you've
it Travis angle number two and
place for the rest show I'll donate 10
more buckaroos I don't know what that
means hashtag farewell mark oh I see
that meets the other camera yeah this or
camera that's very good
next up we've got on the show George
George George George how do you
pronounce that okay so can we get this
Jay it's been judged it's like a hard
Jay cuz my real name is Josh and when I
was I guess like really young my sister
tried to say like Joshua and said Joshua
so it's been George forever
okay people keep calling me yog and yo
hey I think Jack actually said yo hey on
stream in the actual LCS broadcast say a
lot of people have been kind of winter
crawl but it's judge with a Haji good to
hear that jerky what is the were you
calling from probably fifty feet from
you yeah have you so for those that
don't know who you are
cuz familiar familiar name and the
accent sounds about right
you want to give a little bit of context
for who you are I sure I'm George I am
former analyst for Team Liquid former
coach and analyst for TSM former analyst
for fnatic LCS teams been around for a
fair while now yeah what you haven't you
ever announced what you're doing next
yet right no no I actually haven't
I'm not doing anything next at the
moment right now I have so personally
should take care of so I'm taking a
small lapse of free agency and I've
opted to just kind of play the field of
it and then we'll see what happens so
well good news Marky once you meet so
next Manny Mark is equally unemployed so
you guys can just hang out together well
I'm actually leaving in seven days say
mark you've got a short window of time
to hang on target to get on charnot my
fucking mom like hey did you know that
Jimmy's - Jimmy's Jimmy's not doing it
like is it Jimmy is it listen you're
already young Jimmy mark just like your
what works like your mom I've just been
trying to get you some friends hung out
with ever are in town
that are my my friends kids and like
know hang out with them and we know them
we've all just been trying to help you
we all these years mark fine don't like
a help me sign is the street followed
with the Queen you just feel you give up
that vibe like you need help help others
with other people just imbibe all right
uh
Joerg what did you want to talk about on
the show today
alright so I guess we'll preface this
with I think the the swap from hi to
Mickey is like fine if that's what you
want I mean you and we should say you
what was your involvement with Mickey
sorry to interrupt you I just I'm kind
of like if you were on we actually
worked with Mickey briefly at the end of
2017 when he moved to the teal main team
and played with this for the permission
tournament and obviously he's been on
our Academy team so I've kind of I don't
really have super loads of involvement
with the Academy team I really but the
main team but sorry LCS team yeah I've
not I don't really have not really had
like super lives of interaction with
Mickey obviously I've seen him around I
speak to him sometimes and I speak to
the Academy players and I'm really close
with the Academy coach Tim and so I know
a lot about Mickey but most of its
secondhand information but that's not
mostly what I'm here to talk about and
mostly what I'm here to talk about is
the is basically like the kind of the
line that hunters been saying about how
gone garnets is the development focused
org which i think is fine like if that's
how you want to kind of be as an
organization if that's your philosophy I
think that's perfectly fine like it
needs to be development focused orgs in
LCS and it makes sense that it's you so
what I really want to know is like what
and changes can be made now and like
what development opportunities can be
been now now that hes not on the team
that you can with Mickey because in my
experience like I think communication is
like the most important part of the game
and this is where league is evolving is
like how well your team can coordinate
and that just requires good
communication and I think personally
it's gonna be more difficult to develop
players with a non-native English
speaking player
and I'm just interested to know like
what is your philosophy on like this
change why it's good and why it's better
for development okay sure I mean I think
I guess what I would say is I think I
think the question is framed I think
somewhat limited ly in the sense that
it's like a high vs. Mickey discussion
which is okay so putting that aside for
the moment like you know I think I think
what we're optimizing opportunities for
the flashes of kind of calm strength
leadership strength that we saw in our
four young players over the course of
the first split for them to really like
try to grab the reins on that and see
unsee where they can go and so you know
I can kind of go position by position
but each each player really showed kind
of a unique time in the game and also
sort of role outside of the game that
that they were really strong in or had
an interest in or you know something
that we could talk to them about and
grow and I think with less kind of
leadership on the team you know with
high gone there's room in a sense for
them to really take on some of that and
and we're excited to see that I think
Sam in particular is this like really
clear locators wrong level head yeah
Laurel oh sorry
a really like strong level-headed voice
he's really good at at kind of checking
in with his teammates seeing when they
get maybe off the rails or on tilt or
other things both in game and outside of
game and and so I think there's rooms
for him to kind of really step into a
leadership role not necessarily in terms
of like he's our clear shot caller and
everything will run by whatever he says
but I think there as you would know
there's like a bunch of different ways
in which you can be a leader on the team
and I think that's I think that's the
way we'll sort of look to Sam to do that
I think Mickey will will probably still
be one of the go buttons on this team
human contracts I think will be our sort
of forward looking forward playing
players who will really be the go voice
and I think
beyond Matt in a way that I think he
wasn't always as comfortable doing in
spring split to sort of be the the no
voice or the the calming influence and
in the way this roster comes together
and though those are new opportunities I
think you know for one contracts and for
format you know and I think we'll try to
see if they can develop in that in that
space and so there's a way in which you
know by creating problems or avoid we
are giving opportunities for our players
to grow and we sort of needed one I
think I think to get the other kind of a
kind of in a number of in a number of
different areas I agree that like
language barrier you know is an issue
and it's one that we'll have to work to
solve you know when we were sort of
quietly looking for more support in that
area and we can sort of less quietly
look now that you know we're not trying
to to hide a particular change or
whatever and so that's those are you
know additional skills that will be
looking to bring on to make sure that
you know Mickey is set up for success
and the team is set up for a success at
all but again you know like it really
isn't there is like the one for one
player swap but it's part of a much
broader suite of changes that are
designed to continue pushing development
forward okay hunter when you say
intentional leadership vacuum it sounds
really like that's such like such a
strange term I guess is what I would say
like haven't you seen any of those mob
movies where you whack the guy at the
top and then everyone tries to become no
I well I know what a power vacuum is I
said the concept of it but saying like
we're creating an intentional leadership
vacuum does sound a little funky like
well I guess the other way to say it is
like it was gonna be impossible for one
person to replace everything that I was
doing as a leader for this team both in
and out of game and so I think it would
be kind of silly to pretend that like we
got it yes we're taking one of the best
leaders in the history of League of
Legends and and in na is gone but don't
worry these other five guys are just
gonna do all of that and that's gonna be
fine
you know that's a risk right it's like a
big risk for us but it's it's calculated
in the sense that I think we thought
long and hard about you know whether we
would be able to you know whether this
was the we needed to kind of create
these opportunities and our players you
know we'd be able to step in and sort of
backfill a lot
that stuff and and we don't know but
we're gonna see and I think the flashes
of what we saw into each of these guys
and getting to know them and spending a
lot of time with them and the coaches
working with them and other things is
something that we thought they'd be able
to step in and handle and so when I say
so they're kind of like creating
leadership vacuum that that is sort of a
colorful way of saying like hi is
irreplaceable and you know it's on it's
on each of us to kind of step in and
handle pieces of that and try to you
know collectively right like put all of
that back together I think one of the
interesting things I saw in that initial
interview that guide you in some trouble
was the point about how like hi and his
skillset not being like super
translatable or like teaching it's more
like he'll tell you the right thing to
do and he wants you to seemingly you
know kind of just follow it like he's
gonna end up being with the brain for a
lot of the team and so like I can see
that stance where it's like well if he's
always making the decisions and being
the leader on the team and they're not
developing that skill step on their own
so I can I can see that point yes yeah
oh sorry go ahead no no no go ahead say
I mean I work with Lalo and Matt and I
think both of them are super good
players I think in the right environment
they can be truly great players they're
both super introspective very
intelligent outside of the game but we
really kind of more of what I was
looking for is like what are the changes
that your organization is making as a
development focused all to like really
create this change like it's really easy
to say like we're gonna create a
pressure pack like we're gonna create
this like leadership vacuum in the
players is just gonna step up but as an
organization do you not feel you have
some obligation to kind of support that
growth process and like what I'm really
asking is like what press is is like are
you putting in place to kind of make
that happen okay okay perfect so I yeah
that's a just a new level of detail
that's fine so we went into the
offseason you know I think it was March
20th right the day after our final game
and we sat down with every player and
talked through you know what went well
what didn't go well what you know they
could they need in terms of support
going forward what you know what we want
to work on collectively over the
offseason we sort of came up with
homework or coaches so you know we kind
of had a bunch of different scenarios
for how we thought the a the offseason
might go and and we we kind of talked
through potentialities and and
ultimately like we gave each player a
specific set of home
work surrounding you know kind of the
skillset that we were looking for them
to develop and you know a partner in a
coach who was going to kind of work with
them both on what they could do when
they were you know on their own right
like back at home or during their break
or you know just sort of doing soloqueue
and also you know what what our sort of
focus would be when they got back you
know for Wan right it's like we're going
to try to really turn the first 15
minutes over the game of the game over
to you you know and kind of take
advantage of your natural strengths and
kind of sensing where the other jungler
is and what's going on there and see if
like you can be the leader and caller of
these first 15 minutes and so you know
we have a kind of a plan for kind of
soloqueue kind of break time and then
when we get back there's going to be a
number of different sort of scrim focus
sessions I'm not exactly sure how to
word it on on kind of working wand
through some of those things along with
pairing him you know kind of odd review
and other things that I don't I I guess
I'm not sure what level of detail you're
really looking for so I didn't give it
to you the first time as our my getting
kind of charged you mind if I like I
think one way to phrase this question
and feel free to tell me if I'm wrong is
all right so you're gonna go to this
next split you're gonna have this
leadership vacuum is there anything you
guys are doing to help build leaders
right rather than just sort of saying
okay here's this void let's see what
happens is there something that golden
Guardians will be doing to try to like
development to develop like a captain or
whatever is that yeah yeah basically
what I'm asking is like as an
organization you want to be a
development focused organization but
like what are you doing to be better at
developing players than other orgs are
because if you're developing players
slower than other organizations who or
who don't have like such new talent like
you have an opportunity here to develop
some new talent and like what are you
doing is gonna set you to this gonna
really develop you as the development
organization which you say you want to
be yeah so not I'm in like it okay okay
that's fine
so I think among other things right like
just having the space for players in
which to develop I think is one thing
that sets us apart as a development
oriented organization right like you
know
teams have more or less sort of rookie
or younger players on them and then
within the structure of their team
there's more or less space for that
player to you know take risks and try
out new things and sort of grow and I
think one thing that kind of sets us
apart is that that we're sort of risk
tolerant in that sense and we want to
give players the opportunity to to fail
and try again and do other things and I
think that's part of being a strong
development organization is making sure
that you know players have the ability
to try and fail and try again and learn
in addition to that right like I think
the focus of our of our culture in terms
of communication style and facilitation
and the kind of strengths of our of our
coaches and of our players is one that's
really focused on learning lessons and
communicating not necessarily being like
hyper results driven especially in
practice time but you know I think one
of the strengths of the organization in
a tough spring split was that we were
really focused on what we can learn in
each situation and and not let results
good or bad sort of sway the the
progress of the team too much you know
we're changing that a little bit
in addition like I think we're working
you know every players got their own
kind of trajectory and getting to know
them and looking at strengths so we can
citizen also where they want to go we're
in position to kind of put a curated
growth plan in front of them and so for
Sam that for example you know he really
wanted to read this offseason and find
books that would let him talk about or
kind of learn about ways to step into
new leadership roles how to motivate
people how to think through what he's
doing and how that relates to other
people and so you know we worked on
putting a plan together that would get
him some titles that were interesting
and put him in a better position to kind
of develop those skills and then when he
comes back he has an opportunity to kind
of put those into practice and and learn
I'm getting Travis's faces may be
indicating that I'm still not quite
answer no no it's fine just mark is
chatting about anime and the twitch chat
so I know you've what we've lost one
they asked me a question you want me to
just ignore twitch chat
I am listening Gorge that some great
questions I want to get in the way so I
think like I think among other things
right like being development oriented
means making sure that your players have
the the support they need to to try to
learn to fail or to try and fail if
necessary hopefully succeed you know
learn and grow I think there's there's
kind of a patience that's you know
necessary as part of that that that
historically hasn't been you know super
prevalent in eSports given the
relegation nature and just instability
and Jeff yeah I mean a hunter like a
good way to sum it up is kind of it
sounds like what you're saying and
correct me if I'm wrong is that like on
a team like cloud 9 or TSM or I don't
know hundred teams maybe if a player has
a really bad split they will possibly be
replaced because the plan is like win
next split but for you guys you're more
willing to have them stick around yeah I
think that's true and I think there's
certainly teams in our situation who
would have made more drastic changes to
ensure that they got you know there they
got different results in the in the
summer split but we really believe in
these guys and invested in and you know
want them to continue to invest in us
and so you know we're gonna take a lot
of what what we saw on the spring split
and try to double to double down on it
and and sort of shore up we can sister
give them new opportunities yeah and
relegations this one so you can before
you have to worry five of five of eight
so I would be something like that yeah
we've got time
I've one more question you can I sit
along the same line of questioning oh we
am I just wrap it up if you can that's
fine
I just want to kind of touch on your
academy team and say as the development
focus org I want to know why are you
replacing three of your Academy players
obviously what a minute especially then
he's going to a coaching position which
i think is a great role for him but
you're replacing two of your really new
players who have only really been
playing the last year with zigge you've
replaced him with zigge sheep and Benji
who is Lord all of whom have been around
for at least four ish years so as a
development focus organization why are
you replacing these really new players
with war essentially veterans afflict
the Academy willow to LCS teams yeah so
I think I think it's a great question so
I think it's a pretty simple answer and
I think this is true of the other words
also our Academy teams job is to
to you know be a piece of a larger
organization right and so you kind of
corrected yourself when you said main
team and then we're like other team
about the LCS team you know we're we're
all like a big family and our job is to
be the best organization top-to-bottom
that we can be and so you know I think I
think when we were looking at what we
need for summer and we're doing more
development at the LCS level then some
of the other teams are so you know I
think most Academy teams are going to
kind of serve to support their LCS team
in one form or another and for teams
that don't need maybe direct talent
replacement or you know really solid
they can take Flyers on longer term
players or something like that we needed
a team you know and this is the big
change from spring to summer that was in
a better position to directly push and
be a scrim partner and kind of practice
partner strategic partner for our for
our LCS squad we didn't have that some
of that is that you know our players
we're I think a little too green and we
bit off more than we could chew there
and so we're intentionally kind of
bringing the skill level of the Academy
team up with veterans who I think are
gonna be in a great position to show
that they're ready to get back to the
LCS and I think that is like one of the
major things that we didn't you know I
wasn't very successful at talking about
that is going to help our LCS guys grow
even faster is that they have this
really strong partner at the Academy
level to help support their grip and so
I can see how that's kind of
counterintuitive that you could say like
we should take the five greenest players
at the LCS level and the five greenest
players at the Academy level and that's
what a development oriented team is
gonna do I just think that's a in a
sense almost a too simplistic approach
to the situation we're looking to create
upward upward mobility for our for our
for and now five really young players at
the LCS and this sort of asking the
question what do these guys need to
succeed and what they need to succeed at
the academy level as opposed to spring
split is a really strong partner down
there and so that's that's like what we
intentionally set out to fund where
players who are gonna be able to step
right in and provide an excellent scrim
partner we're coming back you know
earlier than the other teams to kind of
get started right away and part of that
is so that we have an academy team that
can be a really good partner for our LCS
team and then continue that on
throughout the split so that how do you
argue you have anything new charge you
you know I think that that pretty much
covers it okay thank you so much for
calling and I really appreciate some fun
having you on the show
thanks for coming hopefully you can
stick around in North America probably
not but thank you anyway do you like do
you like England's weather better or do
you like LA and I like a lot of things
by England the weather obviously is
really shit food is really nice it's
just like there's just really no place
like home like people say it but it's
like really true like it's I've been an
American for the last like 300 years and
honestly like I miss my family I miss my
friends and it's gonna be great to be
back but I agree there is no place as
bad as England Wow well I've only been
there once an entire nation my family
did a family vacation in England they
asked I want to go and I was like no I'm
good Wow
Travis said you mean anyway they go back
I was in London twice have you been
anyone that isn't London it was great
having you on the show jar best of luck
in the future okay mark why don't I Oh
mark let's talk about London features
things where'd he go he's not even in
the waiting room oh he isn't already out
mark wait I need to do the commercial
whoa Oh I'll set it back okay here we go
here we go really quickly everyone I
want to talk to you guys about something
I want to level with you about something
that's been on my mind a lot lately this
is company that provides a lot of
support to me personally also - mark
also the show you guys might have heard
of them before we're called home and by
HP that's right they are the show
earlier the main sponsor for the show
right now the only sponsor for the show
and they are fantastic in fact you guys
can't see as well have to fix that but
I've got their laptop right behind me
use this whenever I'm on the road we use
this in Miami when it traveled we'll be
using it or when I go to MSI we are
streaming this from an omen by HP
computer I'm looking at an omen by HP
monitor say I've loved all the gear that
I've used that they've sent me and it's
it's been a pretty good experience
working with these guys I read I'd I
just came back you know sometimes you
you do a show and you partner with
someone and you're like oh what a
disaster but then you partner with a
company who are just amazing and that's
really what has happened with hot line
League is owned by HP is an amazing
partner unlike some of the other people
I've had a partner with for the show and
I've really appreciated their support
they got into the space a couple years
ago realized the value of competitive
gaming and at eSports and really decided
they wanted to support everything
everything from things like overwatch
League all the way down to a little inky
dinky eats EPT show like this just a
miniscule blip on the radar Effie sports
like hot line League and you know it's
what it's their support that allows this
show to exist and for people like
yourselves to call in and have this
discussion anyway they are doing by the
way they do a dojo show that's what they
call it the omen dojo I believe is the
the name of it you can check it out
they tweet about it over on omen by HP
their Twitter account but they stream it
on Twitch it's a show that they do most
most recently with CLG members is what
I've been able to keep an eye on and I
don't know you guys can go check it out
I think they've got another one planned
coming up shortly I'm sure they have
information about that over on their
social but why don't I you know in the
and the twitch chat I'll just type in
their their link their twitch link and
you can go check them out and maybe give
them a following you can check out some
awesome content that they're making with
CLG it seemed that they sponsor much
like they sponsor this show so thank you
so much to omen by HP for their support
and if you if you appreciate their
support go check them out on Twitter say
hello say say we sent you because they
they make stuff like this happen so
thanks so much to omen by HP alright
moving on we have another caller coming
in just a moment marki are they ready
yeah
Spillman okay okay very good and on the
show we've got Jedi mace how's it going
Jedi mace good how are you doing pretty
good where you calling from
I'm calling from La Mirada California La
Mirada okay so not too far away
lilius yeah what do you want dark out in
California what do you want to talk
about on the show so my question was
directly of I understand that golden
Guardians wanted to be a developmental
focused organization building young
talent mostly around definitely in
contracts basically be like your younger
players that you want to build around
but you're also brought in Matt Lohr low
and high who are the more veterans on
the squad I'm in the league I've been a
longtime tal fan so I can understand how
you saw a potential in Matt and Lori low
because in their first split or two they
looked really promising but I questioned
more is being as a developmental
organization what did you what were you
thinking and bringing Matt lower low and
heightened who want to be or more
veterans in the league rather than
building or bringing more players like
definitely in contracts and who are more
young you don't know really what you're
gonna get out of them contracts look
really good on c9 obviously because he
played the last year was his full first
year but definitely it was kind of more
the Challenger scene so that's kind of a
question of why'd you want to be around
those three veterans essentially Matt
and Lori Lowe rather than just more
players such as like definitely in
contracts and I guess do you consider
two full years of playing in the LCS a
veteran or what term would you use for a
person like that they're clearly not
like you know completely fresh faces
right I would say that two years is
probably like veteran status they're
definitely not young by thinking League
and eSports I think two years gives you
quite a large sample size and they're
pretty experienced in the league
especially like Matt and Laura right who
were one game away from going to final
I'm pretty sure like they finished first
place one split in the regular season
it's like they know what it takes to get
to the top they're not just like being
carried by I mean at that point it was
piglet so weren't just being cared at
all so I feel like they're pretty much
veterans oblique just just as a quick
fact check mark is that I don't I don't
recall they were one game away from
going to finals that was at TT play they
never finished first in the regular
season that was the split before that
one when they had Quast myself
piglet special and I saw mark did your
microphone change again I so yeah I
think I think I'm gonna say like I think
High is in a different level of veteran
status then yeah ed and Laura so let's
just create a distinction there and say
like I think Matt and Laura like we have
the youngest team in the league before
and I realized that experience and age
are not exactly the same but they're
sort of related in a way and I think it
you know in those two this would not be
the first time I think that you've seen
players have a change of scenery and
that really lead to a blossoming in
their career right like hauntzer was on
gravity right and then moved to TSM and
we really saw him make a jump smoothie
bouncing around a little before he kind
of landed and cloud9 and really like had
his moment and you know and we've seen
how great he can be you you know Haku ho
right like they're a bunch of players in
na who who sort of got their start
somewhere wasn't the right situation for
a lot of different reasons you know kind
of instability in the league and then
and they they really had a jump so you
know when I look at Laura Lowe at 19
right Matt is 20 you know definitely 20
contracts is 18 these are for really
young players like overall who are in
their first you know coming out of maybe
their first environment ever contracts
had success at c9 so there's no like you
know that we're not expecting this to be
the environment where suddenly you see
the best that he's capable of but I
don't think it's crazy to say the
flashes that you saw a TL you know like
a lot of other players when they get
into you know a more stable environment
or or a different environment you're
going to see that potential really
you know fully unlocked and I think I
think that's like the expectation you
know in bringing those guys in right
that they are still with two years to
write like lots of experience you can
see the good and the bad
you can also see that there is a long
career in front of both of them
and the opportunity for them to be every
good as good as every good is as they've
sort of shown at moments as you saw as a
tal fan so I I would just sort of draw
like a distinction I think those two are
much closer to contracts and definitely
you know where they are in their
trajectory you know somewhat where they
are in their life than they are than
they are - hi Jed I'm I see you how do
you feel about sort of the distinction
that while maybe Matt and Laura are not
complete rookies that they might not be
veterans do you feel like that's that's
fair or do you you want to report if
they're veterans within like whatever I
you know two years is some kind of
cutoff fine that I think they have a ton
of career in front of them and having
you know having both flourished and
struggled in one environment I think our
prime to really succeed in a second one
yeah I definitely agree that them in
higher art obviously in different
classes in terms of veteran status but I
would definitely say that they're much
different from definitely in contracts
contracts are obviously closer them
because he had playoff experience right
with c9 and the pressure games and
actually really liked Laurel oh I'm like
a fan of his I just like how high he
gets at how much he's devoted to the
game so I think he's a serval LCS player
and Matt I like him as a person just
like from what I've known from like
their squad videos he just seems like a
really cool guy and really genuine
obviously really devoted the game and
works really hard but it's also fair to
say like he's had much better it carries
and when that happens he's obviously
looked a lot better and when he hasn't
had somebody like a piglet right who's
super mechanically gifted he doesn't
look that great and he makes a lot of
mistakes of not only mistakes and lame
but like just getting caught up caught
out a lot in teamfights or when the team
fights about to happen and so as a
development tool focus organization I
would understand bringing in someone
who's new like deathly right he was just
played in the Academy or something like
that who hasn't had a lot of experience
making the same mistakes but he had he's
growing the organization and somebody
like Matthews had a bunch of pressure
games and had a chance to shine and has
done so at moments but also failed a lot
as well and still saying that we're
gonna develop them as a players well
it's possible I think that it's better
to go with new players who haven't had
that opportunity and maybe like the same
mistakes but still grow and have more
like a higher ceiling then knowing what
Laurel oh I'm at stealing is already
maybe if you haven't seen it like you
still have a chance that they're gonna
go really high and have a really high
ceiling but you kind of already seen
their ceiling in TL right with over one
game away from finals so let me I mean
let me kind of paraphrase a little bit
of Jedi's question which is white why
not go with if you guys are gonna be the
developmental org why not go with more
def Lee's definitely was the only person
you pulled from challenger why not try
to find more challenger players or
really kind of embrace the idea if like
hey these are a bunch of fresh faces
yeah so I guess I guess I would just
turn it around in a sense like if their
ceiling is one game from worlds like one
double TP play that you know sort of a
coin flip and sorry not from worlds but
from finals like that's a pretty high
ceiling right like that's not so bad if
that's if that's like you're gonna say
we're gonna take the best they've shown
in terms of where they finished you know
potentially at the end of a split and
just define that as their ceiling I
think that's pretty good most most teams
would want players that are capable of
playing it in LCS finals level you know
from there so but I would say I it
beyond that I maybe we just to kind of
agree to disagree on where their
ceilings are because I think they're I
think they're a little bit higher than
yours in terms of like dropping sort of
further down right I think if you look
at the overall pool of players you you
want to find sort of two things right
like you're looking for people with a
lot of career left in front of them
which is somewhat aged and somewhat
experienced and also you know you're
looking for a really high ceiling I
guess it's three things you're looking
for a really high ceiling and then
you're looking for you know the kind of
personality and and mindset that can
that can lead to growth people who are
self-aware self-critical disciplined and
hardworking and those guys check all of
those boxes and we're you know going to
be ready to step
into the LCS there's a way in which I
think if you you take too many risks at
once you create too much of a volatile
mix it's hard to kind of measure each
variable if you're making too many
changes and I think if you said we're
gonna take five just raw challenger
players and throw them in it's gonna be
much harder to tell what's working and
what's not working because you have less
sort of known quantities in some ways
and so I think we can still be you know
very development oriented by having
young players who have shown some of
what you know they can do but not
necessarily unlock that consistently and
really see if we can get them to be the
peak you know that we've seen or higher
on a consistent basis yeah I think my
opinion is like if you take five players
who have close to no experience and put
them together like they're just gonna
get smashed and it's hard to learn like
what you want to work on when everything
is just kind of like getting destroyed
and so like a lot of these players that
you see come up who as young players
succeed it's usually in an environment
where there's other likes stabilizing
plate like contracts join c9 and it's
like great well they have impact and
they have Jensen they have sneaky and
nab smoothie so that's a pretty stable
core to like slot someone into stuff
thinking like more quickly reach their
potential I would say so I can
definitely understand the mindset of not
just being like yeah let's get five
challenger players because we want to
develop the scene yeah and I think
that's you know I think that's something
we saw on our academy team that you know
like the game is the game is difficult
the way League it's sort of a team game
it is hard for individuals right like
this is a you know something the
subreddit means about or circles circles
around but you know like the one clan
how hard can one player carry like you
know one player can lose you the game
other things I think like you need kind
of a relatively high skill floor at each
position in order to kind of get into
the game and have a chance to grow and
learn and in our Academy team I think
struggled at times to play the game
consistently enough across its roles to
really let each player have
opportunities to explore the mid game or
explore you know later game scale and
champions or other things as part of
part of what made that environment I
think harder from a development
standpoint
and so I think you'd run a lot of that
risk at the LCS level along with the
pressure and expectations and everything
else that comes along with playing in
the spotlight I mean if you think guys
are hard on our team or you know right
now I think you can imagine how much
harder harsher it might be and it might
be on the org if you know if things were
even worse before we move on to the next
color and say goodbye to Jedi mace
Snoopy nine three eight and twitch chat
says ggs is basically blaming one player
for their troubles that was something I
saw people kind of react you with the
high thing don't don't bother looking
for it for it it's but no no I believe
you
yeah wait looking for it in chat no I
think it's I'm you know so I I can see
it actually it's new P nine three eight
there it is so let me be clear no um if
if I know that's how I came off so let
you know just give me a second to say I
we were not intense because of hi this
was not highs fault by any means I think
he we put him in a very difficult
position and he you know and he wormed
admirably and and you know tremendously
given given everything so you know I am
not it is not highs fault by any means
and that's why I like I think the the
unfortunate part about the way the
police interview came off is that it
seemed like we were making this one
change and that's gonna fix everything
like we're making a whole bunch of
changes you know and we expect that
those collectively will make a big
difference on where this on where the
team is going and what kind of you know
development we're gonna see in summer
split and so I don't think this is highs
fault we're not intense because of high
you know if we get out of 10th and into
playoffs it's not like high was you know
it was highs fault he was holding the
back and now everything's fine we're
doing a bunch of things to try to
improve the the fortunes of the team
going forward you know and and if I
didn't I know I didn't make that claim
in the blister if I haven't been making
that clear before now tonight let me
just say that very explicitly Joey mice
thank you so much for calling on the
show think yes have a good night thank
you alright we're moving on to the next
quarter but I do very polite caller so
far yeah cool us 33 suffer
three months and says Owen buy HP @ AO
golden Guardians merch store hotline
League merch do at Travis plugging
everything raging pianist subbed it's a
person who plays a piano lengthy zem 'it
subbed purple reich a subbed our purple
re q r AQ xu the mighty subbed asthma
died 5 10 reset for three months korean
vibes reset for two months and says I
think Travis is daddy I'm really having
a response to that I am the fourth
Hokage Risa for two months say vyx
subbed Wrath of Khan gifted the scepter
Jacob oh if we already shout them out
for that imp or Emilio has sub
somebody's substance I think you guys
really appreciate can I pull a question
out of twitch chat that for us Karen was
saying but other people so you know III
don't know if this I you know we are
explicitly setting playoffs as a goal
for this split in a way that we didn't
for Springs flow I went into spring
split interviews modestly about you know
sort of a longer timeline and other
things playoffs is a goal for this split
you know we're kind of I'm kind of har
setting that as a clear expectation for
the team because I think we have the
talent to do it and having learned a lot
about our guys and sort of adjusted our
system and made you know kind of a
robust set of changes we think that's we
think that's you know realistic so we're
we're kind of setting that as a goal you
know I think I think people are nervous
that maybe it never matters how well we
do or you know we have some timeline
that it's possibly long you know I think
I think summer split we're aiming for
playoffs whether we get they're not I
don't know you know like that's that's a
goal where we really in but but you know
that is explicitly the goal Emily Emily
is on the show Emily where you calling
from Los Angeles California Emily Los
Angeles California
Emily what do you want to talk about on
the show today a lot of familiar faces
tonight yeah I you such a crowd out of
like professionals
yeah can we do conflict of interest
Emily and I know each other reasonably
well and we used to work together at at
Yahoo eSports but I did not know she was
coming on the show and I did not give
you a question to ask did
no I actually just um great white hunter
yeah I followed Mickey's career since he
started in China rumored to mistakenly
been picked up as a jungler because he
spammed
Lisa and mid and they quickly realized
that he was not a jungler but he's a
very mechanically gifted player
obviously and he was on and refused on
the freaks probably volatile player so I
guess I have a few questions about why
you chose him specifically but the first
one is um uh one of the issues with hi I
know a lot of people bring up his CS
numbers is control over mid lien if
you're looking for someone to be able to
control that mid point of the map why
Mickey because he is really type of
flare in my opinion she's kind of cut
out you really what type of player he is
not that type of player like he's not
gonna be the person who sits in mid and
wave clears he can be a very volatile
player um he often goes for some really
risky out please which either end up
looking really awesome or really
terrible um so I'm not like coming on
here to poop on him or anything but I'm
just wondering like what you were
looking for from him as a player first
of all and and just to chime in to
having casted him oh yeah I knew his his
Korean history of like you know
quote-unquote clingfilm iffy Mickey or
like the dice rolling thing and then
like when I cast it a full season two
Challenger and Washington Village all
the time it was like oh my god this dude
is like just the most balls-to-the-wall
player like he thinks this year is like
the Sondra levels of like play like he
just thinks he has to be in the back
line it was crazy
to add a little bit more yeah yeah sorry
I thought yeah that didn't seem like the
end of the sense
um yeah like I think that I think that's
fair so among other things like we did a
ton of scouting you know when we were
kind of thinking about possibilities and
we liked a lot of what we saw in the key
I think he's a unicorn in that there are
not a lot of available LCS ready mid
laners who can kind of step right in and
play
especially you know we're fortunate that
he's available like halfway through the
year when when most of those guys you
know kind of have a job at the LCS or
some other equivalent you know tier at
in another region and so you know I
think that I think that was you know I
think Miki isn't is an incredibly strong
laner you're right that there's like a
risky thing but I also think like in
doing scouting and talking talking to
players and working with one on you know
kind of leveraging his experience and
watching vods and having him kind of
participate in that process like we
thought that they would have a lot of
chemistry and natural synergy in the way
that they play together and that kind of
jungle mid synergy is increasingly
important and so some of what you see in
the way Miki plays I think it's also
some of what you see in the way Wan
plays and so if they're able to kind of
put that together which which we feel
you know optimistic that they will I
think you suddenly have this really kind
of aggressive volatile unexpectedly you
know strong duo that can that can work
together as necessary I also think like
Miki is still 20 and has a ton of his
career in front of him and has a long
way that that he can go in his game and
I think one of the things that we hope
to do you know it's not necessarily
changed Mickey's nature I think there's
a way in which every player sort of is
what is what he is but use that I've
sort of put that risk-taking within a
broader framework of the team
strategically and make sure to pair him
you know with kind of a know or more
cautious voice than mad and really
empower Matt to try to be a balance both
in what you know in terms of the overall
team strategy but also sort of mid and
later game when when they're not
necessarily isolated within their lanes
so I think it's a totally fair question
it's definitely one that we debated is
we were kind of looking at all of our
options that were available for mid lane
you know and and one that I think we we
feel confident that we have both the
personnel in place and a broader system
solutions to make sure that we're
getting the best out of micky possible
so today shadows of spamming why not get
Demonte yeah I can't talk about players
that are under contract with other teams
so I'm just not going to be able to
answer questions about players that are
on other teams one way or the other
that's just an unfortunate restriction
of of you know tampering and poaching
rules
so I don't know if this is something you
can answer is maybe some of the
difficulties of looking for players in
between splits versus at the end of a
season so the difference between spring
and summer versus summer to spring yeah
yeah so I think that's a great question
so I think one thing and we're already
seeing this in my opinion although III
think maybe the lack of announcements to
date isn't confirmation that there will
be no announcements ongoing previously
between splits there was a decent amount
of turnover because you had you know one
and a half or so teams being relegated
so that's teams dropping out two new
teams coming in looking to make changes
so they were sort of top teams could
pull up from that pool of kind of flux
some new teams had to sort your things
up you know with longer contracts being
enabled by franchising and Academy teams
having a very different focus than
challenger teams before rosters in
general I think are more stable than
they were even in previous years between
splits and between splits being even
less you know less of a volatile
volatile time or less of a free pool of
players then at the end of the year so I
think everybody you know teams that all
ten teams you know didn't have infinite
options when they were trying to remake
their team we're sort of thinking about
what was going on you know again I can't
comment around what conversations we did
or didn't have or what that did or
didn't suggest where our possibilities
but but there's definitely not like it
was before this year started where there
was you know 43 of the 50 LCS positions
and this whole kind of Academy changed
obviously like a really different space
emilie additional thoughts so um I guess
the thing I can totally see why yeah you
look at contracts you look at McKee and
you'd be like okay you know if we set up
some really awesome dive compositions
this could be you know just insane I
guess my counter to that would be that I
do think that a jungler like contracts
who does like to invade very
aggressively benefit strongly from
having the mid laner that he can
communicate with well and also can
really have a strong control over the
mid push but transitioning to that I
guess what I also wanted to talk about
was communication hang on a South Korean
player into your organization just
because
only is Nikki just a volatile player on
the rift but I know this past offseason
he did express some kind of homesickness
and the fact that he really wanted to go
back and visit South Korea and he missed
a lot of his friends and stuff like that
and I think the best I've ever seen him
play was definitely when he was on that
freaks lineup and again is there were a
lot of loud voices on that team but they
made it work and they had a coach and
coach calm who came on that was you know
this historic kind of Korean coach um
and then from kind of a group of friends
and streamers where Mickey with either
Kerry or the team with loose into like a
legitimate team and that's when I feel
like he performed the best so I'm
wondering how you're going to address
that communication aspect because I
certainly did not see him play that well
in China and definitely did not see him
play that well in North America on Team
Liquid yeah so I guess it's threefold
one you know we got calms of Mickey in
game you know to kind of get a sense of
of what he's like
you know in terms of the game and so I
think we're pretty reassured that that
within the flow of the game while
obviously it's not the exact same thing
you know his communication skills are
actually pretty good and I think people
are under estimating his English within
the kind of League of Legends framework
to you know we are I think I mentioned
this earlier we're actively looking for
some more kind of Korean support in
general it's something that Steve and
Tim from tal said that we should
definitely do when we were talking to
them about how you know what made Mickey
successful there how can we set him up
for success here when he gets here you
know they really recommended like they
kind of mentioned some of the same
things we were sort of aware of them but
mentioned some of the same things talked
about what you know kind of lessons they
had learned from having him on TL and
what we should apply and so we're gonna
apply note some of those in terms of
both like actual literal Korean facility
but also in terms of the kind of house
and team environment that leads to him
to being successful so we're sort of
aware of those challenges kind of
explicitly and I've taken some some
steps already and have a couple more
that we're gonna take before he gets
here
to try to get through that so you know
Matthew definitely is in Korea already
he he wanted to go over there and train
between splits he's been talking to
Mickey and working on building kind of
some of the friendship already you know
even long-distance high and Mickey have
been chatting a little oh sorry a
contracts and Mickey have been chatting
a little to try to get them you know get
those relationships building I think
it's something that we know that we're
going to to need to deliver on if this
if he's gonna be successful in our team
it's gonna be successful and so we sort
of started down that road I think
relatively aggressively given that he's
have kind of a not necessarily a direct
follow up but what's your like overall
opinion on getting another Korean import
player because this is now your you know
for the brief history or the first
import that you guys have gone for like
is this something that you guys are more
open to because it is I think in a lot
of people's mind a less development
focused approach you know like you said
Mickey is young but yeah uh you know I
think I think you could a couple things
so we were never going to be all-na
necessarily forever right and so there
was you know and I say Travis now I
think talked about this and what in my
initial interview I'd like the split
even started that that you know that
that we didn't necessarily want to sort
of create this impression that there
would never be at him whatever I think
you important can be strategically make
sense as it as it does for us right now
so whether you need to or not I don't I
don't know I think teams do there's a
lot of different models for for kind of
finding success there I don't know that
this makes it easier it probably does
from a kind of synergy standpoint how
much more likely it does I don't know
you know we we have one for now maybe
maybe they'll be too next split maybe
they'll be zero next split I think I
think you know in some ways next what is
along goes a long way away but but I
definitely think it's possible I think
more than anything right like we want to
to make sure that every player that we
bring in a set up for success because
the success of the organizations come on
success of the vidual players and so you
know if it makes sense to bring in you
know a non-resident and and put them on
the roster then I think we'll do that if
we can set them up for success I think a
development at org right like the
Warriors at the best of all level I
think are still very much Adam
or they're playing for championships
right now they don't you know you can
have a developmental mindset and still
have a team that is competing at the
highest level or doesn't necessarily
have rookies on it at any time some of
that development may shift you know more
explicitly to the Academy level when we
get that far so I don't want to create
the impression that like competing for
championships or having imports somehow
at odds with having a development focus
sort of top to bottom I think those two
can work hand-in-hand you'll just sort
of be moving around somewhere that
developments happen
anything else family I mean that was
pretty much fun to chat about Mickey
ferb in it and provide some context for
people that just might not be familiar
with his play style because again like
we're talking about a player who just
within the NA scope
his first game on T L if I remember
correctly he rotated that Lane to
basically like kind of come down and
gank bot Lane form it and he went for
1v1 straight under turret and I believe
killed the other person but also died
himself that was I was like that's a
perfect introduction to North America to
be quite honest there's also if you want
like the most absurd like level of
aggression you will ever see on this
you're clear like watch his Academy game
this split against CLG Academy at the
end of losing despite being up like 10k
gold at 20 minutes or something insane
like he this dude is like yeah literally
the most aggressive player I think I've
seen in awhile more aggressive than a
Cooney it's like who knee who fucks up
more okay Emily before we go before we
go I would love to get your anime Pick
of the Week oh good calming I'm like
super behind on everything um the only
thing I've been watching it's Ben Stein
zero and I can't actually recommend up
that to people because you really do
need to have seen the original season so
I guess I'll just recommend steins gate
okay but if let's say hypothetically I
had watched the first one how how is it
in comparison pleasantly surprised I was
not expecting
you come in because I steins gate ended
pretty you know definitively well
finitely yeah and so I was like and I've
never played the visual novels either so
um I was like oh the shows good I don't
really need more of it but the way they
have done it is actually really good so
I've been enjoying it okay thank you so
much heavily had a couple people that
have been asking how to get on the show
in fact somebody donated five dollars
and said how much do I have to pay to
get on there's no amount of money that
you can pay to get on we're trying to do
that you can sub which someone increases
your chances but to be honest like we
have two hours for the whole show we do
a little bit of an ature on the
beginning people come on sometimes for
five or ten minute long discussions so I
know that not everyone will always be
able to get on and I apologize for that
but that's just sort of the way the show
goes that that doesn't mean that you're
awful or that we hate your question or
something like that's just theirs we get
there are hundreds of people watching
the show right now and probably a ton of
them are asking questions we just don't
have time for no check the vod's so you
can just lie next time say thousands are
watching the show there are literally a
million people watching the show right
now marks discord keeps crashing because
he's getting a hundred thousand
questions a second yeah that we're
hosting him - yeah i's n toes on the
show i sent to where you called from los
angeles los angeles and what do you want
to talk about on the show tonight
well I've noticed a lot of talk between
Mickey and hi and replacing hi and I
think the community sentiment is that
there won't be a person to leave the
team and it's it's kind of like a trade
of leadership versus mechanical prowess
and someone who might not speak English
to a great capacity and the problem I
think golden Guardians is suffering
through all of this is by not showing
the personality of your players and the
doubt kind of settles in when looking at
the rest of the roster and seeing that
their personality types aren't exactly
the first thing that comes to mind
when thinking of leaders and the likes
of contracts or laurel o or matt
especially from the days of their their
teamliquid stint with at least laurel oh
and Matt and this team kind of has some
of the smallest name value no offense
but they just don't seem like they have
the biggest branding and that may be in
part because of golden Guardians is lack
of content now if you look at their
YouTube channel it's like awful of small
clips of big plays and specific games
but there's really no in-depth content
to learn about the players now I know
it's difficult to create content when
your team is losing so much but still I
mean not as a burn when you suck as much
as you do I can understand hunter why
there's no content yeah
that's why our content challenges are
not related to our win Rick okay so I
mean why why hasn't there been a focus
towards letting us get to know these
players and developing their brand as
players great question and I'm glad you
asked so so this definitely uh you know
something that we expected to bring
online over the course of the spring
split like we tried to hit the ground
running and get sort of the necessities
in in place and we just didn't get to
content as fast as we hoped and so we
had a position open that we finally
filled and you know our kind of first
real content creator is coming on board
Monday know to Monday so wait what's
Monday to Mondays from now you know as
the guys get back from there kind of
break and so I expect that you'll see
our content volume increased
dramatically as we go into the summer a
lot of that being very sort of
personality oriented or storytelling
content in a way that we didn't have
before so I think it's a totally totally
fair criticism and some of what we see
that I think you you know that I hope
that you'll see but also that makes us
confident that like Sam and Matt are
really ready to step into more
leadership positions and and Matthew who
like is very new to everybody and most
people haven't seen I think it's really
positioned to be one of the strongest
voices and strongest personalities on
team is that that you wouldn't have a
way to do it right like you could watch
their streams and maybe get a feel for
it but we haven't created that content
that gives their the community a chance
to get to know them in the same way and
so that's something we're gonna do a lot
more for this split and you know sort of
going for here we just didn't get there
I think as fast as we hoped and it's
totally fair to say like I'm skeptical
of this explanation given what you've
shown me because you've shown me nothing
yeah and well it's it's not so much that
it's so late I mean it is to an extent
but when you also look at how golden
Guardians have performed this split it's
it's almost as if you've dug yourself a
hole and that if you also fail this
summer split and don't necessarily ramp
up in content to meet people's
expectations I don't see a way for you
to get more well-known players due to no
extra incentive to join this
organization I mean if you look at the
other brands like cloud 9 or TSM they
have massive branding so if you what
about loyalists I mean I've just just
team sneakers anyway continue well okay
so if you pay me as much as TSM say Sam
up a star player and if you pay me as
much as TSM and you say yeah well we'll
match their whatever they're offering
you will match that I'm definitely going
to TSM because they have a massive
branding and it's better for my brand as
a player sure so in in one sense you're
kind of digging yourself a hole that if
you don't perform well this split then
suddenly you have to go all-in on this
rookie talent and you can't change your
game plan because no one from you know
the the superstar category is going to
want to join your team yeah I mean I
guess I would say I think that hole
already existed you know before any of
the new teams got into the space the
endemic teams had a ton of advantages in
that sense and so you know I don't know
that we've dug ourselves a bigger hole
than maybe we had in the first place but
we certainly haven't dug ourselves out
of or climbed out of a hole and maybe it
is deeper in the end so we got a
we have to make some content for sure
and we have to win some games for sure
more more than we want and you know I
think I think that's definitely like a
challenge that we're hoping to that were
looking to meet and taking steps to to
meet and and that we're gonna get you
know kind of surpass or achieve or new
challenges over the course of this split
okay cool well thanks for playing what
what are you gonna do
what's your content okay so I think I
think the episodic right like the 20
minute episodic show that everybody does
every week is great but it's also hard
to get people to watch them if your team
is not necessarily super successful like
optic add one I don't know how many
people know that because not a lot of
people were watching optics content and
so I think there's a little bit of a
chicken and an egg problem with content
in general right like if you make stuff
that nobody watches it's not necessarily
doing if you don't have the wins or
competitive success to kind of drive
more interest in your team that content
isn't necessarily worth it but if you
don't have that content like the caller
was just saying it's hard for people to
get interested or tell these bigger
stories so you know so there's there's a
little bit of a chicken in the net but
we're gonna try to create I would
describe our team and I don't know how
different this is as really a playful
group I think something that is true
about eSports content in general is that
a lot of teams try to justify eSports or
kind of maybe not appeal to mainstream
necessarily but you could see it in Rye
its content and something I talked about
when I was there and in eSports
continent in general that gaming is fun
and may be dismissed easily and so you
try to make your content team serious or
double down on the dramatic moments
whether that's you know sort of internal
personality drama or just a competitive
nature in general I think we're gonna
move away from that and so you know for
example one idea we're talking about in
kind of our return to spraying thing as
you know bringing all the guys back up
to the Bay Area having a video about
them like coming to Oracle Arena you
know and sort of we're coming back and
so maybe like someone's in a cab going
across Golden Gate Bridge you show the
girl Gate Bridge and someone's you know
flying in or they're on a ferry across
whatever and then we cut to you know
Matt and Matthew and they're on a tandem
bicycle right and so mast pedaling
really hard because he sits forward
definitely like finger gunning two girls
on the side or
water pistols or whatever right and so
and then you have like Sam and he's on a
horse and he's like a full cowboy gear
he's riding his horse across the bridge
and that he's going to the right and so
I think you know we can we can find ways
I think to stay with the lighter side
the fun side of gaming of our guys kind
of expressed their personality and maybe
find a differentiator between us and
some of what the other teams are doing
and so it's a little silly right like
it's it's not normal stuff but I think I
think it sort of speaks to a little bit
of our personality as an org where I
think we're a little playful and our the
personality of our guys where I think
they're a little playful and try to try
to position ourselves a little bit
different I don't know that you'll see
the 20 minute behind-the-scenes video
the way everybody else has done it I
think that's I think that's done and I
also think it's expensive if people
aren't gonna watch it I think we're
gonna try to find different ways to show
our personality and try maybe put some
guys in scenarios that they wouldn't put
it I think the ad carry meme that got
started around definitely this sort of
organic thing I don't think we should be
scared to be me mobile that way and you
know I think I don't know if my guy I
don't know if Juan feels that way or Sam
wants to ride a horse yet or whatever
right like this is at the concept level
but I think ultimately like if our or
gets kind of operating at all cylinders
we're gonna take the kind of risk-taking
approach that we're willing to do and
kind of risk cars that we do elsewhere
and do it in terms of the content and
the playfulness that work well just uh
well just be careful because that was
kind of what happened with cloud nine
when they were making all their meme
videos and everyone was just like oh
you're not you're not actually taking
this seriously yeah it's a fine line to
walk it so and I appreciate that it's
totally a fine line to walk in general
and so you know but I don't think
eSports should be afraid to be fun you
know like it is fun
so we should have fun with it so I'm
gonna pitch you on a great video oh boy
Ashley in that meet deft and Mata so I
don't know if they know how we make that
happen I don't know if they're gonna
come to North America anytime soon but
well definitely is in Korea right now uh
you know I like that I'm gonna note that
and if it happens we'll give you a
little like shout out in the YouTube
description
mark z4
I'm saying this would happen I I don't
know I really have no idea if deft and
Mata are aware of their na counterparts
that that would be fun it just ended up
itself yeah I don't know what that video
international stage like you just film
it and it's like look they're in the
same room this is funny needs a little
bit of work shopping travesty a little
bit
listen you start with the broad strokes
and you fill it in okay yeah watch some
Bob Ross show a happy little trip happy
little finding a way to get all the kit
equipment there to shoot that alright
anything else you want to talk about
mister as until not you guys are doing a
great job and I look forward to seeing
golden Guardians kind of uh bring up
bless up in the summer split so awesome
thanks me and I appreciate you calling
in great question alright final one
final one just really quickly we've got
SABIC who subbed wrath of already got
that impor emilio who I believe was our
first caller subbed Kyle zero 808 REE
subbed I am only Rick Erie subbed Jesco
5 he was the one that said how much do I
have to pay to get on not much more than
5 I'm just kidding we don't do we take
dollar people don't pay to get on the
show real foxy gifted a sub to Kobe
who's been watching not directly about
saying we don't take bribes he's like
well I do take bribe yeah yeah real foxy
gifted us up to League of family so both
Kobe and Emily now subs last caller of
the night is Jacob Jacob where you
calling from I'm going from Hartford
Connecticut Hartford Connecticut I'm
sorry to hear that that's spirt for
another month and then Brooklyn New York
that's a big upgrade yes it is good for
you what what do you want to talk about
on the show today besides the article
that you probably want to plug no I
don't wanna plug the article I mean I'd
like Thank You hunter for mentioning it
earlier I was really happy with the
conversation special in my head but I'm
also going to talk about staff I kind of
want to preface this by say
like I'm a big fan of the ownership of
the Golden State Warriors I I know the
lay cups and I know Peter Guber pretty
well I think they're pretty swell people
and I think they do a really good job
particularly on the basketball side of
things um but I did want to ask right so
this is the application process that
took about six to eight months to get
done and obviously part of the the
application you put together for those
unfamiliar was staff and who your plans
for both your team and your brand so all
this is a big discussion right so my
question to you is 103 of your staff are
former Riot Games people - gone spell Z
and yourself right and obviously there
was probably a suggestion that that
there were people out there looking for
jobs like yourself that could join this
organization and help them but none of
you have ever worked in team management
before what makes you qualified to
operate a team and you know put together
this team and run it I mean I guess
you'd have to ask the people that hired
me I mean I I must have done a decent
job in the interview I I don't think
Deegan or spells II came up in the
application at all and I wasn't like I
wasn't with the Warriors at the time so
I think I think you could sort of
separate the right like the application
part from the final hiring process I
don't I don't think those are really
related in any way so but you know I
think I do more than just operate the
League of Legends team in terms of like
picking players and stuff there are not
a lot of eSports businesses that have
been run out there and so having done
you know two stints on the media side
worked at a developer I have seen the
industry from a number of different
angles I've done sales work business
development tournament operation like
tournament development developer
relations I've done you know kind of
player relations work when I was at Riot
and other things content creation and so
you know my resume is like and I don't I
can't tell this a gotcha question on my
original they were going relatively
robust in terms of covering a lot of
different aspects of the industry in
addition to that right like I was
already in the Bay Area so you know it
was easy for me to be you know right in
the backyard of the Warriors and work
closely with them you know I have a
bunch of context up here in the tech
sector that relevant both you know now
and kind of going forward as things
expand you know whereas
opening this new stadium so you know my
job is yes like we have the League of
Legends team we also have a 2k team that
just started we're gonna be in other
games after that and you know in the
long run right like while I'm like super
detailed involved in the creation of
this roster and things we're gonna hire
a you know more something that looks a
lot more like a traditional sports GM to
take over all of this mark you're
looking for a gig let me know you know
we're gonna you know we're gonna look
for somebody who like bob myers does for
the warriors is gonna own the
competitive side kind of the bottom one
cuz your absolute right like not my
expertise i haven't run a team and i'm
definitely like you know I was plaid
with however many years ago and play a
lot of League of Legends but it you know
I'm not I'm not nearly that kind of
player you know we're gonna need to find
additional expertise we just want to
make sure that we're hiring the right
person we're gonna take our time to make
sure that that we get that person and I
don't think we've seen a lot of what
looks like a traditional sports GM
within esports historically so that
wasn't something we were gonna get out
of the out of the gate and I think one
thing that a loco brought to the table
that we don't have anymore obviously is
like a lot of experience in a lot of
those aspects and contacts around the
world and you know real kind of talent
evaluation shops and scouting and other
things so you know fact in Falco great
name
you can like look up my account on OPI
GG and see that I was flat you know you
can just it's GG s hunter go look at it
right now it's right there so you know I
I think what I bring to the table is a
bunch of skills that are that are not
necessarily like directly related to the
team management that the side of it that
people see but are related to the much
broader aspects of running like a team
business and making that successful book
now but also you know sort of set up for
the way we all hope that the industry
grows over time my rebuttal to that
hunter would be that a lot of people
that 100 thieves hired actually had no
experience in League of Legends
whatsoever and many of them are some of
the smartest people I've ever met I
think from like John Robinson who worked
on the best more TSM deal which we all
basically know about at this point and
to a lot of the other people like Blake
Robbins like these are these are people
that have not worked in League of
Legends but they almost came in first
and then
her split right like they were a
phenomenal team what do you think it
said which I okay
all hopin is a third party here like as
someone who who like was somewhat a part
of that I brought a couple times like I
I met with those guys even before they
were franchise like I mean they they did
one of the things that they've talked
about time and time again was like they
got prolly can like he fundamentally
built that roster and like they did the
right thing in hiring people but I don't
think it at least from my understanding
of how they talked about it's not fair
to say that hundred thieves outside
people built that successful League
legend C myth the way they talk about is
like yeah we got probably early on and
he picked out the players he wanted and
we helped go get them yeah I mean your
golden Guardians had logo so it yes
innately yeah I mean it's another
experienced coach who's been on top
level teams before it's worked with a
bunch of different players so I think
like I think both teams who are kind of
started fresh right like even clutch
gaming like Sebastian Park doesn't come
from League of Legends and the even
their staff you know I give you a kadhi
limb he worked on a liquid team that
wasn't so great either and and obviously
they came in fourth so I'm just curious
like a hundred what what types of
changes you think you need to make aside
from players to make this work out I
mean like I I don't know if you've been
watching we've talked a lot about a lot
of changes that we've made I'm not
really sure what your what you're
looking for exactly you know I think
like all credit 200 thieves and clutch
they had great splits and I'm I'm really
happy for them and you know obviously
like you know we we hope to be as
successful you know soon and and III
guess I'm not I feel like you have some
other question that you're not asking or
there's some answer you want me to say
or I'm not really sure where where
you're going here exactly but like 100
things did a great job good good for
them you know clutch did a great job
like good good for them their success
doesn't somehow invalidate our struggles
or vice versa our struggles don't some
I'm not I guess I'm not really sure not
sure what you want from me here yeah I
mean the big thing to me of this
say that's not really a question I feel
like League of Legends often I feel like
League of Legends oftens recycles people
within in the community I mean I've been
in league of buttons to professional for
four years and I'd certainly don't think
that I would be able to run a team
despite me having a pretty good welcome
inside on the business and also in terms
of players and being able to deal with
these people a lot regularly but I mean
I think it's worth I guess to me I think
it's worth I think it's just worth like
looking looking to change things up
because I mean obviously it worked for
two other teams so we're kind of green
and came into this new okay we are I'm
not I guess I'm just not sure if you I I
just really don't know is what what you
want me to say like we made of we made a
bunch of changes like we're committed to
making more I guess I'm just not sure
what you want here Mike another question
to you like what about optic cuz they
both were pretty new as well as
quote-unquote like recycled talent that
one what are your thoughts on optic
Jacob I mean I think optic optics really
interesting right because they they
actually had a lot of different rosters
that I remember that they actually
didn't go through with they ended up
with the one that they did they were
intriguing in the offseason but I know I
totally think that they have some put on
their blame right like I was very
doubtful does have a teen higher when I
heard it and because he didn't have
experience coaching the League of
Legends team there was a caster so it
like I was doubtful of that as well I
think that optic definitely deserves to
deserve some blame on the management
side as well alright anything else Jacob
no that's it okay thanks for calling him
thank you thank you guys for having me
Joe yeah I lagged out I'm not sure what
he said to you know he just said thanks
for having me on the show okay
as a weird kinda yeah was it weird look
I I mean I guess like more broadly right
like this is a whole venture that the
warrior started that starts like most
prominently with the League of Legends
scene but is a bunch of other things and
my job is not just to do this but do a
bunch of things and I guess I'm just not
sure you know yeah we we didn't start
out as well as a hundred thieves did I
don't
I'm Jacobs not breaking news that's not
a wolf bomb there that we finished in
10th and hundreds first and second or
whatever like he may I guess he doesn't
you know he doesn't respect the way I
ran the team or whatever but just just
to be clear there's like some people and
twitch at who are like Travis you
probably should have like stepped it
there or whatever like it's an
interesting situation with this episode
because I like I I can't be seen as the
guy like defending hunter we used to
work together so that's just kind of
yeah I agree it was kind of an awkward
situation but that's kind of the way
yeah I mean I tried to to play devil's
advocate a little bit because I do think
it's weird just to single out the organ
tent and just kind of say like you
fucked up and like I'm sure hunter knows
the ways as the one in the middle that
they fucked up a lot and I don't know
it's just seemed seemed weird I'm sure
there were a lot of bad decisions along
the way that like all the teams that
finish low down made and that they would
take back that's why I brought up optic
it's like they they had some internal
people but they also had a lot of
external people that didn't like they
didn't do well I don't know yeah I mean
I think I know we're trying to put a
button on this and I'm sure my wife's
ready for me to have to be doing this
anymore but um
I like this is where one split into what
I think we all hope is like many many
many years of League of Legends and and
you know like yes that we did not start
out with us it's good as suppose they
have but we're confident that like we're
taking a long-term approach this
development or ancient we're gonna gonna
you know do a lot of great things to
split and beyond so yeah well no one say
or you guys talking about yourselves
okay we're we're wrapping up the show
here I I'm gonna stick around
stream right after this and kind of give
my thoughts cuz this was like a I'll do
it I'll do it off the show cuz it's kind
of a weird situation that I was much
quieter normal but I don't know we can
we can write things down mark anything
that you want to say to anybody out
there nope come back tomorrow night
everybody we're parth parth on this yeah
hearts awesome I hope you guys have
great questions for him he's so bored I
had lunch with him and he's like in my
boat where he's like yeah I just I don't
have anything to do because it's it's
TSM's first real off season they finally
fucking lost early in playoffs and don't
have anything to do and now yeah feeling
the pain every team feels yeah it's a
long break our last game of spring split
was like March 19th our first game a
summer split is June 16th so long and
you know that's new like it's even
longer but TSM made it one week further
than us right so they have like almost
three months great questions for parth
about what what an offseason feels like
and you know theirs is gonna be like I
assume very different from ours given
the way their roster was constructed and
you know the sort of confidence and
steadiness of that hand and everything
else so tomorrow night should be really
good yeah thank you so much hunter for
coming on the show anything that you
want to say here at the end no I mean I
think you know I I just I we may
probably have a bunch of different
viewers I'm here in part to kind of
reinforce that that the interview was
blitz like got out of hand I said some
inappropriate things to which I
apologize too high and I apologize to to
my team and you know here to kind of a
bothers fans in the community like that
was completely inappropriate and you
know it's part of what I want to do here
is talk about the changes but also you
know really say that kind of explicitly
so that people hear it hear it for me
and you know we we wish hi like
absolutely nothing but the best
he's an amazing person I loved being
around him he was you know infectious in
the organization and and you know and
more I'm gonna miss him miss him around
so high is gonna be a great concert
creator or anything else that he puts
his mind to
and again nothing but the best and I
appreciate the format here for a chance
to say that and take some great
questions
take some whatever
was from jacob wolf and and have a good
time thank you so much for coming on and
we will I'll stick around after the show
we'll be back tomorrow with parth so
please come back in 22 hours for that
episode this has been hot line League
episode 24